Ronda - 3:13

>> I'm Neil McNeil, ICIMS Boston, Senior Program Policy Specialist.


>> Hi, everybody.

It's Cynthia Farewell, Business Relations Manager in Delaware and Vocational Rehabilitation.


>> Sandy Miller.

I'm the Transition Coordinator here at Delaware DVR.


>> And this is Linda Mock.

I'm a Senior Policy Fellow at ICI.


>> And thank you Cynthia and Sandy for being willing to talk with us a little further today about the community practice.

I just wanted to start out with kind of an overarching question which is what the nature and scope of your partnership has been with the community college.

You can tell us how it's structured, who's involved from VR as well as the community college.

So with that I'll just turn it over and let the two of you give us an overall description.
>> This is Sandy.

I'll talk a little bit about the partnership we have in terms of transition.

We have one community college in Delaware.

It's Delaware Technical and Community College.

They have campuses throughout the state so there are four different campuses.

They're all relatively close to our DVR locations.

They are also pretty accessible to students throughout our state.

One of the main collaborations we have with our community college is through our supported education program.

Supported education came about because we had a lot of students who were passing into classes at a basic or pre-tech level so they were not going right into their general course work.

And so DVR was in kind of an awkward position because they had not done terribly well academically in high school.

They weren't testing in as high as students would test in so DVR was being asked to support students, and it was tough for us to know really if they were going to be able to make it or not.

So instead of having to make that decision, we wanted to offer an opportunity.

So we partnered with Del Tech to come up with a supported education program which is offered at each of the campuses.

It's two hours twice a week.

It falls during regular class times so it fits into a schedule.

Basically we are paying Del Tech to provide an instructor and two tutors in math and in English so that students who are testing into these basic and pre-tech classes have the ability to obtain additional support throughout their semester.

Traditionally it's been for the first year students who have tested into these lower level classes, but if there's room and it's not too crowded or somebody really seems to need assistance beyond that first year, they've been really willing to work with those students.

So essentially they're coming in.

They've got a curriculum set up.

It really depends on the students who are there each semester and what sort of challenges that they're facing.

So some of the tutoring is going to take place individually.

Some of the curriculum is going to be provided.

And then some of it is developed as they go based on what the needs of the students are.

So that's sort of the partnership in a nutshell in regard to supported education.

