Ronda - 2:44

>> It makes me think of a question about the thing you just said about we have all the right people talking.

Tell me exactly who are the right people? Who is talking to each other from VR and from the community college, and where are those conversations taking place?
>> Well, some of the conversations are with the Department of Labor, and then our Deputy Director is sitting at the table with the Director of Career and Tech Ed from the Department of Education, local businesses.

We also have regular meetings at the local level with schools and in some cases there are families who attend.

We have a leadership forum that we've developed over the last year so students are hearing more information.

So we're getting information at a local level from the schools and from DVR counselors and from students to kind of see what they see are the issues.

And then we've had the Career and Tech Ed Director.

We've had lots of conversations with the folks at Del Tech who are in workforce development who are getting that feedback.

The Department of Education and DVR are able to take that feedback from the local level and take it up the chain to the individuals who are making some of these systems level changes.

And so Career and Tech Ed has tons of contacts through local businesses because of the internships and the certifications and stuff that the high schools are required to provide to their career pathway.

So there's a connection with business there.

There's a connection with business at Del Tech, and there's a connection with business here at DVR through the business relations.

We've got representatives from all of those agencies meeting on a large scale as well as regular meetings on a monthly basis for the local levels and people who represent, who are sitting in both of those meetings coming to those to make sure that information is going from the day-to-day level or the day-to-day operations level up to the systems change management level so that we're not forgetting when we make these big changes, especially when it comes to education and career preparation, that sort of thing.

When we're talking about training programs we're not forgetting students with disabilities.


>> Right, so you've got all those conversations happening at multiple levels.

Well, thank you so much.

We really appreciate you taking the time and describing it to us.

You've really got a lot of valuable things going on.

It's exciting to hear it.

