Ronda - 4:39

>> I have a question about how you involve business and the development, implementation of this program.

And does your VR agency's business relations staff play a role in connecting business to these programs?
>> In terms of the workforce training programs that our community college has, Del Tech has always been very forward thinking in terms of the way that they work with business.

In Delaware they're very connected to our economic development office.

So in terms of knowing what the needs are for training programs, they've been involved with business with looking at what kinds of training programs have been needed for workforce training in the community college.

They've looked at the types of careers and industries that are out there that are in need of training for their community college so they've always been forward thinking that way.

Across the campuses and even though the trainings are specific to the campuses in different counties, they have some very good workforce training that they offer at the different campuses in different locations near a college.

We've had some conversations with them across the table in terms of whether or not we should be talking about different training for people with disabilities to come into the community college.

We haven't as of yet developed anything in terms of putting together just the training for individuals with disabilities.

They are, like Cynthia said, they're very connected to the business community for their programs but as well for their certification training.

They're very geared towards the needs in that part of the state as well as making sure that they're industry recognized certification so that students can go out and get jobs pretty much right off the bat.

And they have had a lot of conversations, have had a lot of open houses for high school students and for anyone.

And their instructors are; when you talk to them and you see the locations where they're doing their training, they are very connected to what are students going to see when they get out on a job in that field and making sure that everything is set up for them to be prepared to get jobs in those fields.

So I do think that they do a very good job of connecting with business and preparing our workforce.

I think where we, where support education is involved is really to help students get into college because they're technically not into any of their course work if they're testing into the basic or the pre-tech level.

We want to give them an opportunity to go to college but we recognize they're going to need supports in order to do that.

In terms of support education, it's really a program geared more toward giving them, giving the students some additional supports to make sure that they can matriculate into the fields and the courses that they want to get into.

If they matriculate in and they go forward, they generally are doing fine.

If they don't, they have connected with a lot of different programs that are going to allow them to see what other options they might have.

And we are really pushing some of the certification courses because we're really trying to work on career pathways between the Department of Labor, DVR, Del Tech and the Department of Education.

We're all trying to talk the same language so that when we're preparing students for careers that we're looking at the pathway and what kinds of jobs and transferrable skills there are going to be based on the kinds of experiences those students are having.

For our business relations staff what they're out there; they're developing relationships with business so they're talking to business about the talents that individuals with disabilities bring to the workplace.

They're also working with individuals to make sure that they're getting the best placement that they have for the skills and abilities that they're bringing to the workplace.

But they do a really good job with looking at where they are in terms of business, developing training programs with Delaware's businesses.

They have some good certification programs.

So they do a pretty good job with going and picking up courses that are good for developing people's skills.

