Ronda - 4:52

>> How does a VR agency maintain a relationship with the community college? And where do you see that developing in the future?
>> It is our only community college so we have a pretty strong relationship with them.

We have a lot of students.

We encourage students to start at Del Tech because there's also they have the ability to get two years of their course work out of the way and then go into a 4-year college in many, many, many different ways whether that be another state university or someplace out of state and have all their credits transfer.

So we have a lot of our students going to Del Tech.

Our schools; I feel as though the schools are really preparing students to go to college more so than looking at the career and what they need to prepare for a career.

Many of our consumers at VR are going on to Del Tech.

The support education has been another way that we've maintained a really strong relationship with them.

And like I said earlier, this class kind of started as one thing.

It's morphed into something else a little bit.

And I see it changing as we go forward simply because we're putting more resources together to ensure that we're actually providing what the students need because, one, we want to make sure that the right students are getting into college or connecting to some sort of certification program.

And two, Del Tech wants to keep their students enrolled.

So we want to get the right students going into college, and I think right now, and I think this is happening, you know, nationally but it's really happening in Delaware where many, many students are leaving high school, going to college and they don't really know why or what they want to do.

And so all the more reason for us to make sure that we're maintaining this relationship with Del Tech because the majority of the students are starting there.

So I would say that our high school counselors are very well connected to Del Tech.

We have college counselors and our transition assistants who are very well connected, and then at the state level we've got Department of Education, Career and Tech Ed, Department of DVR and Del Tech who are all talking to make sure that we are providing programs that are industry recognized.

The labor market needs those individuals to be trained to do that kind of work.

So there's a much, I think, bigger picture that's just started within the last few months here in Delaware, maybe within the last year where we're getting more of a systems change to align all of our systems to work together.

And then us having worked with all of the business relations specialists, they are very well tuned in to the programs that prepare students the best in regard to what the needs are of the employers in their local communities.

 And Del Tech does a really good job.

The business relations specialists know; you know, they know and work with the counselors even to help advise students who are thinking about what they want to do, even whether; and I say students but I don't mean just a high school student.

I mean an adult individual who's thinking about going back on to school, to advise them as to where they're going to get the best training in the field that they're interested in going into.

And so I think that we have a good, strong relationship in that regard as well.


>> And I think the other thing, and it speaks for itself; because we've had such a good relationship with Del Tech, one of the things that we're doing right now is they contacted us and they have job openings within the community college themselves.

What they did recently was they contacted me and asked me if I would help them get people into the community college because they have so many openings.

So what we started was a pilot program to see how well we could help them get people with disabilities into their workforce.

So what they do is when they have openings, they contact me and they post their job opening for five days just for VR consumers.

And what we do is we send them individuals to interview, and this just started about a month ago.

And they only post for us for five days.

We get them people to interview.

And so far we've gotten three people hired within Del Tech's community which I think is fantastic.

So it's beginning to open some other doors for people with disabilities as well.

So I think that the relationship that we have with them is one that is good, and we're gonna keep it going because they're the only community college that we have and maintain a good relationship with.

